Mudras
CV Gesture Controller + Sequencer
Limited WARRANTY:
IC Alchemy modules are backed by a 12 month warranty
from the date of purchase. (proof of purchase/invoice
required)
This warranty is limited to defects in manufacturing and
does not encompass any issues that arise due to
improper handling, storage, incorrect power supply,
exposure to over voltage, or any modifications made to
the module.
If a module is approved for warranty service, it may be
subject to a refund, replacement, or repair at IC
Alchemy's discretion. Customers are responsible for the
cost of shipping the module back to IC Alchemy for
warranty service.
Please contact tech@icalchemy.com with any inquiries,
Return to Manufacturer Authorization, or any feedback to
share.
Installation
Mudras is designed for Eurorack modular systems and
occupies 12 HP of space. It requires a +12V supply (2x5
pin connector), drawing 30mA from the +12V rail.
Make sure the red stripe of the provided
ribbon cable is oriented on the same side as
the "RedLine" marking on the printed circuit
board. The shrouded header also lines up this way
with the cable provided, but might not with other cables.
Overview
At its core Mudras is a step sequencer that moves
forward one step for each rising edge gate/ trigger seen
on its input jack. Instead of the standard knobs, Mudras
uses a “time of flight” laser based sensor to read the
nearest distance directly above the hole labeled sensor.
Notes are always input in real time by holding down the
record button as the sequence steps forward.
FEATURES
• 64 Step Control Voltage Sequencer
• Analog Style Clock Input
• Reset input
• 7 V/Oct Scales
• “Unquantized” Linear Mode = 0.51 mV/ mm
• Inputs and Outputs protected from eurorack
voltages
SPECIFICATIONS
Power consumption............……………… +28mA, -0mA
Module Width..............................………… 12HP
Module Depth ........................................… 25mm
Distance Sensor Range .........................… 700mm
DistanceSensor Resolution…………………. 1mm
Quick Start
1. Patch any clock/gate/LFO source into the Clock
Input
2. Patch from Pitch Output into any external CV input
3. Hold the Record Button down while receiving
clock/gates. Distance from sensor is recorded to current
step on rising edge seen on Clock Input
1. Clock Input -
Rising edge any gate/clock over 2 volts
moves the sequence forward one step.
2. Reset Input -
Rising edge any gate over 2 volts resets
sequence to first step
3. Length Knob -–
Turn to set the length of sequence
4. Distance Sensor
Gesture is read from this sensor
5. Record Button -
Press to record to sequence
6. Scale Knob
Choose between 7 scales or linear mode
7. Pitch Output
Outputs quantized V/Oct CV
8. Clock Output
Passive multiple of the clock input.
Patch to an envelope, or use as clock
to avoid sensor
Scales
1) Major: The major scale is the most commonly used scale in western
music and can be thought of as the white keys on the piano.
2) Dorian: Minor scale with a raised sixth, often used in jazz and rock
music. Contains all notes from minor pentatonic scale plus two more.
3) Minor Pentatonic: Five-note scale that is used in various music
styles around the world. The staple of all blues and rock guitar players.
4) Harmonic Minor: Minor scale with a raised seventh, raised seventh
tone, which creates a strong leading tone to the root.
5) Diminished: Scale constructed from a repeated pattern of whole and
half steps, giving an erie and unstable sound.
6) Whole Tone: Scale where all notes are spaced a whole step apart,
often used to convey dreaminess or ambiguity.
7) Chromatic: This scale includes all the notes on a standard piano.
Using this scale you can play any other scale.
1. Major
2. Natural Minor
3. Minor Pentatonic
4. Harmonic Minor
5. Diminished
6. Whole Tone
7. Chromatic
8. Linear CV
Detailed Instructions
Setting the Scale Mode
• Turn the Scale Knob to select one of the seven musical
scales (represented by the icons made of dots.)
• Turn the knob all the way to the right for linear mode
(represented by the solid line icon)
• Changing the scale also changes notes in the sequence to
match the new scale.
• Linear mode has its own separate sequence from the music
scales because in linear mode there are 700 different
voltages as opposed to the maximum of 36 in the other
modes.
• Linear mode and scale mode each are stored seperately.
You do not lose anything by switching to linear mode.
Setting the Loop Length
• Turn the Length Knob to choose the length of the
sequence.
• You can lengthen and shorten the sequence and Mudras will
stay locked the clock.
Recording to the Sequence
• Hold down the Record Button to write to the sequence.
• When a clock is received AND the record button is held down
the sensor records the distance of whatever object first block
its narrow path.
• You can record one step at a time, or hold down the record
button as long as you want and new data will be written to
each step.
• The number of steps that are recorded is dictated by the
Length Knob. Upon release of the record button the
sequence continues on to the next step.
• The closer your hand is to the sensor, the lower the voltage/ pitch;
moving your hand away will increase the voltage/ pitch.
• Distances closer than 20 millimeters and greater than 700
millimeters from the sensor are recorded as 0 volts.
